# Topic Modeling of Cryptocurrency Tweets from Twitter

Over the past several years the use and popularity of cryptocurrencies has soared. With the strong amount of interest in cryptocurrencies on social media I thought it would be interesting to perform topic modeling of topics related to cryptocurrency on twitter using natural language processing techniques to identify various topics being discussed relating to digital currency.

In order to accomplish this task twitter data was streamed using the Tweepy streamer in python from which twitter data was stored in a MongoDB database. Tweets were streamed over a two week period and specifically filtered for terms relating to cryptocurrency including blockchain, bitcoin, ethereum, binance, etc. As a form of dimensionality reduction, topic modeling could then be performed to represent the text from each tweet in its topic space in which various topics could be identified as a cluster of similar tweets. A total of 30,000 tweets were collected and stored in a MongoDB database. Latent semantic analysis (LSA) was performed as a topic modeling algorithm to cluster tweets into separable topics. Sentiment analysis was performed in which each tweet could be given a sentiment score of either positive, negative, or neutral and the results were evaluated.

The major topics relating to cryptocurrency being discussed on Twitter included topics relating to blockchain technology, trading and investing of cryptocurrencies, as well as the free distribution of virtual coins. At this point in time individuals tweeting about cryptocurrency seem to be more optimistic about its future prospects, based on the results of the sentiment analysis I performed, however, digital currency is still in a relatively early adoption phase with many countries still yet to pass legislation for regulation and still relatively few businesses accepting payment in the form of cryptocurrency. The price of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is still largely driven by speculation at this point in time and only time will tell how well these digital assets integrate within business and society.
